# hello, just hello
[SC]
[VO]
welcome to the course, i think i'll write this last.

# OLD SCRIPT:

(largely not applicable any more)
WELCOME TO REACT WEEK 1
Welcome back everyone! In this course, you will be learning to use the React.js front-end library, which means you will be writing a lot of JavaScript. This first week, you will focus on learning more JavaScript in order to prepare you to learn React.

Slides/Screenshots:
You will be learning about JavaScript objects, classes, advanced array methods, and more.

And you will spend a lot of this week in hands-on practice of those concepts, through multiple Code Challenges and a Quiz. At the end of this week, and every week, you will meet with your instructor and classmates to review what you have learned and work on a Workshop Assignment.

After that, your next four weeks will be spent learning React. In Week 2, expect to learn how to set up a React project and begin writing your first React components. You will work with the same “Nucamp” campsite review website you built in Bootstrap, but you will start from the ground up and build the same website using React.
In Week 3, you will learn about different types of React components, and about the React Router library to help you turn your React project into what’s called a Single Page Application, or SPA.

In Week 4, you will work with user input via forms, and you’ll learn about a state management library called Redux.

In Week 5, you will get even deeper into Redux, and you’ll learn about using the Fetch API and JavaScript promises to request data from a web server.

In addition to all this, starting in Week 2, you will take your Portfolio Project from your Bootstrap course and recreate it using React.

Expect to learn a lot during this course, and remember as always to stay focused, …, and don’t forget the 20 minute rule!
