# video 6B let's take a quick tour of what got installed 3 mins

#### mention that there are other templates
    eg --template redux

[SC]
[VO]

Hi there! I'm back.

In that last video, we ran create-react-app and saw that we can start it by running 

[SC]

[VO]
yarn start.

In this video, we're going to take a quick tour of the files that were installed, our stub of an application.  

[SC]
[VO]
so let's go ahead and type control c and then enter to stop our app, then, in our code editor, we'll looyk at the files


[SC]

[VO]

Every node application starts with a package.json.  There, we can see that we've installed a number of libraries.

[SC]
[VO]
YOu can find these libraries in the node_modules folder.
There's a lot a lot of javascript in there, including the 
react library and all of the many libraries that it is built on top of.


[SC]

[VO]

Next, let's look in the public folder.  

Here, you'll find an index.html.  If you look at it, you'll notice that it looks a lot like the index.html file from our react-without-react example -- basically just a div with an id of root.  

React renders our single page app in there.  Let's see how, now.  

Open up the src folder.


[SC]
[VO]

This is where our react application lives.  The entry point on node applications is generally the index.js file, so let's start there.


[SC]
[VO]
The first thing you see here is an import statement.
Actually, a bunch of import statements.

In node applications, the import statement is how we make code from other files available in the current file.

It's pretty straightforward, but there are some nifty little tricks to learn, so let's take a minute to make sure we understand import and export in javascript before we continue looking at our app.



[END]




[SC]
[VO]

[SC]
[VO]

[SC]
[VO]

[SC]
[VO]