#### video 3a react without react 3: functions in javascript (JS review)

        arrow functions are cool
        functions should do one thing
        functions can have parameters, and default parameters too
        functions have a single return value; if we want to return more than one thing
            we can use an object or an array
        there's actually a lot more to learn about functions in JS, but we'll come back to it
        react components are always functions that return a single DOM element, eg a div

https://leanpub.com/javascriptallongesix/read#functions

[SC]

    (() =>
        (() => 0
        )()
    )()

[VO]

Welcome back. I want to start with the answer to the question I posed at the end of the last video, which was, what is the return value of this javascript expression?

If you guessed that the return value of this function is zero, then good for you!

And if you also noticed that this isn't just one function but two functions, and both of them are immediately invoked arrow functions, then you score extra bonus points.

-- will this be ok??

This rather nonsensical collection of parentheses and arrows, by the way, comes from one of my all-time favorite books on javascript, javascript allonge, by reg braithwaite. You can read it for free on leanpub, or you can reward him richly for the pearls of wisdom he offers.

I won't go into functions with nearly the depth that he does in

--

[SC]
typing the function in a new file

[VO]
Let's go ahead and test it now. I'll make a new file called zero.js and in that file I'll write the expression, like this, and then, to make things easier, I'll assign the result of that function expression to a variable called val, and then I'll put that inside a console.log().

[SC]
0
[VO]
Zero, as we expected.

[SC]

    () => 0

[VO]

At the heart of this expression, is an unnamed arrow function that returns zero.

The arrow function is a succinct way of declaring functions in javascript.

[SC]
const zero = () => 0
[VO]
We can also, of course, name arrow functions, and that's exactly what we do with most of the arrow functions that we'll be writing in our React code, which we'll call COMPONENTS. Let's name this one zero.

[SC]
const value = zero()
[VO]

Then we can invoke this function and assign the return value of this function to our 'value' variable and we can see that we still get zero. So far so good.

[SC]

const zerozero = () => () => 0

[VO]
But, notice, before, we didn't have one function named zero, we had a function that returned a function that returned zero. If we remove the immediate invocations and assign the resulting function to the variable name zerozero it looks like this.

[SC]
showign the output
[VO]
Notice, though, if we change our variable value to be the return value of zerozero(), we don't get zero! We get a function that returns zero!

[SC]
const value = zerozero()()
console.log(value)
[VO]
So, if we want to log our original zero, we have to invoke the function that gets returned from zerozero, like this.

And this is a pretty basic example, but thius actually one of the really neat things about functions in javascript.

[SC]
first class citizens slide
[VO]
Functions in javascript are first class citizens, which means that we assign functions to variables, and we can pass functions into other functions, and we can return functions from functions.

What this means, broadly, is that javascript supports a functional style of programming.

The functional style of programming encourages programmers to create small, re-usable functions that generally try to do just one very specific thing.

[SC]
const multiply = (a, b) => a \* b

[VO]
So we might have a function named multiply, that takes in two values and multiplies one by the other.

[SC]

const multiplyBy = (a) => (b) => a \* b

[VO]
But we can go this one better by seperating using partial application, like we were doing with zerozero above. Can you see how this might be more useful?

[SC]

const multiplyByThree = multiplyBy(3)

[VO]
Now, we can assign the return value of multiplyBy(3) to a variable name.

[SC]
const multiplyByThree = multiplyBy(3)
const value = multiplyByThree(10)
console.log(value)

[VO]
Then, we can re-use it whereever we want -- and simply pass in the second value when we're ready!

This is a pretty simple example, but the idea behind it is pretty complex! If it feels hard to see how you could use this in your own code right now, don't worry, you're going to get a lot of practice with ideas like this in this course.

React is built on this notion of functions as first-class citizens, and throughout this course you're going to get to use javascript's ability to compose with functions in many interesting ways.

And, by the way, I bet you're wondering when we're actually going to get to see some React in this react course! And that time is....almost here now.

But first, I want to return one more time to our react-without-react example now and see how we can use functions to make our code a little more resuable. And, when we do finally get started with actual React code, I'm quite sure you'll be able to see exactly why I'm introducing React in this way! Because, by that point, the basic structure of a React app will already be sort of familiar!

But before we go on, I recommend taking a little break -- take a little walk, have a cup of tea or coffee, or just sit and meditate for a few moments. These were pretty intense, high-level ideas in this video. You may even need to watch this video again, and spend a little time playing with these ideas.

And when you're ready, I'll see you in the next video!
