## w1 v3 CORE JS - reviewing DOM manipulation -- 7.5 mins?

[SC]
stank love web page with hearts

[VO]
Welcome back. With that big picture view of React out of the way, let's get to work!

In this first series of videos, we're going to we're going to make something like the page you see here.

It's a bunch of hearts, a little bit like those candy hearts you see around valentine's day. But if you noticed that the messages are a bit off, you're right -- they were generated by an AI, which learned how to write them by analyzing a list of human-generated candy heart messages. It's kind of a funny story from the endlessly amusing uncanny valley, that place that where machines get kind of sort of close to being human but don't quite get there, and you can read all about it at the link at the bottom of this exercise page.

https://www.aiweirdness.com/candy-heart-messages-written-by-a-18-02-09/

[SC]

the list

[VO]
We're going to start by taking the list of texts that this AI generated, our data, and we'll simply render it to the page.

[SC]

[VO]
And then we're going to show you how to transform it, using functional javascript. We'll render those messages inside hearts, and we'll render those hearts in various ways.

So, we're going to start by taking the list of texts that this AI generated and we're going to display them on a web page, using javascript, and then we're going to

[SC]
KEEP YOUR DATA SEPERATE FROM YOUR VIEW

[VO]

And to start with, we're going to do all of this using javascript and some good old-fashioned DOM manipulation.

[SC]
REACT IS (mostly) JUST JAVASCRIPT
[VO]
What, you say? I'm here to learn React, not javascript! But that's just the rub, friends. Because, React IS javascript. And what I hope to show you in these first few videos, is all of the javascript that will help you understand React better, and be a better react developer.

And, when we build it without react, we're going to build it in a way that's really really close to being react code, or at least react-like code.

Our hope is that after you finish these videos and start coding react, you'll hopefully be able to clearly see that React isn't some kind of dark magic -- it's mostly just javascript.

If you can remember that, I think you'll be a much more confident and capable React developer.

The best way to learn React is to learn javascript!

[SC]

JAVASCRIPT FUNDAMENTALS

[VO]

So in this first series of videos, we're going to get you ready to write React code by reviewing the javscript fundamentals that you need to know to be a great React developer.

[SC]

    THE DOM
    FUNCTIONS AND FUNCTIONAL PROGRAMMING IN JAVASCRIPT
    OBJECTS AND OBJECT DESTRUCTURING
    ARRAYS AND ARRAY METHODS
    TEMPLATE LITERALS
    IMPORT/EXPORT

[VO]
So what are we going to learn or review in these videos?

[SC]
the DOM
[VO]
First of all, the DOM. React uses the DOM to work it's magic, so let's make sure we know what it is and how javascript uses it.

[SC]
FUNCTIONAL JAVASCRIPT
[VO]

Second and perhaps most importantly, having a strong foundation with functional javascript is essential to writing good react code.

So we'll review functions and how to compose with them and learn about side effects, higher order functions and immutability, all terms that you will come upon constantly as you advance your knwoledge of React.

This will by no means be an exhaustive introduction to functional programming -- ou could spend years mastering functional javascript. But we'll introducec you to the key concepts that are essential to understanding React.

[SC]
OBJECTS AND OBJECT DESTRUCTURING
[VO]
overview
[SC]
ARRAYS AND ARRAY METHODS
[VO]
overview
[SC]
TEMPLATE LITERALS
[VO]
overview
[SC]
IMPORT/EXPORT
[VO]
overview

[SC]
last slide

[VO]
Now if all of these things look like things you already know -- that's great! You're probably more than ready to start coding in React. But, even so, a review these videos should be a great way to get started with React, learning how to react without react is actually a great way to get started with React.

[SC]
[VO]

[SC]
[VO]

[SC]
[VO]
